the sunshine today. It’s going to be
much colder for
much colderfor all of us
the sunshine today. It’s going to be
much colder for all of us in the
coming few days and they will be
further sunny spells and scattered
showers. The rain is already
marching its way into the north west
of Scotland and Northern Ireland.
The next band of rain pushing into
northern parts of England and Wales,
northern parts of England and Walas,
quickly
northern parts of England and Wales,
quickly followed by some sharp
showers. To the south 3 bit of mist
showers. To the south a bit of mist
and it will
showers. To the south 3 bit of mist
and it will be cooler than last
night, frost levels in the North
will pick up with the arrival of the
rain which clears through quickly
from Scotland, Northern Ireland,
northern England and Wales but it
northern England and Walas but it
takes
northern England and Wales but it
takes until lunchtime to reach
southern and eastern parts of
England and it could be heavy, so
will the showers following on behind
with hail and thunder. Look at the
temperature difference. 8—10 in the
temperature difference. 8-10 in the
north
temperature difference. 8—10 in the
north tomorrow compared with the
same teens today, only 13 or M at
same teens today, only 13 or 14 at
best in the
same teens today, only 13 or M at
best in the south because we have a
North north—westerly wind blowing
North north-westerty wind blowing
the
North north—westerly wind blowing
the cold air down from the Arctic.
It will stay with us through the
weekend. A brisk northerly wind
weekend. A brisk northerty wind
ushering in
weekend. A brisk northerly wind
ushering in more showers through
Saturday especially through northern
and western areas but they could be
some further east as well and
obviously if you are sheltered from
the wind it won’t feel can
unpleasant but for most of us
temperatures are well down on what
we’ve become used to this week.
Probably fewer showers by Sunday,
because we see a ridge of high
pressure starting to build in from
the west, but still there is a keen
northerty wind
northerly wind blowing and it could
still bring a few showers,
particularly
Keep using that word "lie".
It’s not the lie, it’s the cover—up.
You know the Prime Minister.
Yeah, I do — petty.
It’s somebody that says
she’s your daughter.
The briefing you asked for
on Peter Laurence —
MI5 put it together.
So you’re saying you’re clean?
Squeaky.
Welcome to Question Time.
Tonight’s panel — Gillian Keegan,
the Government’s Minister
for Apprenticeships and Skills.
A former apprentice herself,
she left school at 16 to work
in a car factory and pursued
a business career for many years
before becoming an MP in 2017.
A Labour MP for 16 years,
Culture Secretary, then
Health Secretary under Gordon Brown,
currently mayor of Greater
Manchester, Andy Burnham.
Dane Donna Kinnair,
general secretary of
the Royal College of London.
A nurse who went on to specialise
in child protection and ethical law,
before taking up leadership roles
in major hospital trusts
in London, advising
the government and other bodies.
Joining us down the line,
all the way from Athens, economist,
author, politician and former
finance minister of Greece,
Yanis Va roufakis.
And politician turned broadcaster,
former Conservative MP
and Defence Secretary,
now living, we have to hope
a more civilised life,
travelling the world with a camera
crew in tow, looking at trains.
Michael Portillo.
APPLAUSE
Good evening.
Welcome to my guests
here in the studio and, of course,
to Yanis Varoufakis,
joining us down
the line from Athens.
Very good to have you with us.
Our live audience is with us
again, via video link,
as we are doing it these days.
Tonight, you are all in Coventry,
or around Coventry.
So very good to have you with us.
Thank you for being
part of the programme.
And for all of you watching at home,
do join the conversation.
The usual way, on social
media, @BBCQuestionTime.
Let’s hear what you have to say.
So, let’s take our first question
tonight and that is from Jak Davies.
With cases continuing to rapidly
rise and areas now going back
into full lockdowns,
and venues closing their doors yet
again, is a second national
lockdown not a case of "if"
anymore, but "when"?
And what does this mean for a lot
of businesses already
struggling to survive?
So, let’s talk about lockdown,
or certainly greater restrictions.
Andy?
Well, we have been in lockdown
for most of the summer.
And, I have to say, people
in Greater Manchester
are really, really struggling.
And we are just finding it
hard now, with the way
the Government is handling this.
I’ve tried to work with
the Government all the way
through this crisis.
But it does feel increasingly
to people like they are being
treated with contempt in the North
of England, because last night
a newspaper puts out
a front page that says,
pubs and restaurants
are going to be shut on Monday
across the North of England.
Now, I didn’t know about that.
They haven’t told me.
It doesn’t really matter about me.
What about the people who work
in those pubs and those restaurants
right across the North of England?
And, you know, for me, this hasjust
got to stop, to be honest.
We cannot face a national crisis
with the Governmentjust imposing
decisions from the centre with no
agreement with people who have
to face the real world today,
where people are saying,
we can’t go in another lockdown,
and our businesses will finish.
This is the point I have
made to ministers.
On Monday, said to them,
let’s have a reset movement around
this new traffic light system,
this tier system.
I said I was prepared to go with it.
But it must come with support.
We’ve been under restrictions
without support in the north
of England, in Greater Manchester,
Bolton saw pubs and restaurants shot
and the staff in those places
who work behind the bar
and the kitchen had no local
furlough scheme to help them.
And the message I’ve
given to the Government
is a pretty clear one.
You know, there can be no
restrictions without support.
And if it is going to be
the Tier 3 restrictions,
effectively a national lockdown,
we have to go back to a full
furlough scheme for those staff,
support for those businesses.
Otherwise, the North
of England is going to be
levelled down this winter.
And I won’t accept it.
I will not accept
restrictions without support. the Government
just imposing these decisions on us,
briefing them to newspapers
late at night.
They need to treat the people
of the north of England
with more respect.
And when you say you won’t accept
it, what are you talking about?
Civil disobedience?
I won’t support it.
So, earlier in the summer
they asked for my support,
and I did provide it.
But if they come with restrictions,
Fiona, without full support
for the people and businesses
affected, I won’t support it.
But, actually, more than that,
I will challenge it.
I will use whatever means
I can to challenge it,
get support for people.
Because, otherwise,
they are going to suffer real
hardship this winter.
We are going to see
businesses failing.
I even threatened possible legal
action over the A—level results
in the summer because I wasn’t
prepared to accept that either.
Because that disadvantages young
people in the North of England.
We need a change here.
I’ve offered to work with them
time and time again.
But I think that the mood
in the north of England this week,
speaking to local leaders,
business leaders, is the Government
has lost the dressing room
and they need to work very hard now
to get it back.
Gillian?
Well, I think what Andy
hasn’t said, actually,
which is that we are facing
an unbelievably serious situation.
And if you just cut that
into context, less than two months
ago we were quarantining
holiday—makers coming back
from various countries around
the world because they had more
than 20 cases per 100,000
in those places.
Today, in Manchester,
I believe it is way over
500 cases per 100,000.
It is extremely serious.
It is a very, very difficult balance
that we have to make.
But it’s extremely serious.
Two thirds of the hospitalisations
that has happened of all covert
patients in the whole of the UK has
happened in the north—east,
the North West and Yorkshire.
——Covid patients.
Two thirds of everybody
going into hospital
in the country, in those places.
This is serious.
It is getting out of control.
And we have to do something to bring
it back under control.
Now, of course, there’s been some
local lockdown restrictions.
Moving to single households,
obviously the curfew of 10pm has
been there for everybody.
The rule of six, across the country.
But the cases are still rising.
So, we do need, we definitely
need to work locally
and we definitely need to make sure
that the communications
are much clearer.
And I do agree with you, Andy.
I think it’s probably very
frustrating for everybody if leaks
are made or there’s
speculation in the press.
And I don’t know
which of these it is.
But clearly we have to do something
if we are going to bring those
cases back under control.
We have one thing we need to do,
which is to try to get that R
rate back to below 1.
What about support for
businesses, for example?
Well, of course we have
done unprecedented
support for businesses.
The furlough scheme...
But from here on in?
The furlough scheme is still
existing, it is still in place
until the end of this month.
And then we have the winter economic
package, which is introduced
from the 1st of November,
which is for restrictions,
and restricted times.
The Chancellor has looked
at some industries as well,
there have been specific sector
deals, specific sector support.
We have said that we will
support businesses.
We have supported businesses.
There’s been grants,
there’s been VAT cuts,
there’s been business rate
cuts, there’s been...
You closed pubs and restaurants
in Bolton overnight,
just a few weeks ago.
The people who work behind the bar
in those places or in the kitchen
got no support at all.
Do you think that is right?
Well, the people would be
entitled to furlough.
Well, they weren’t.
Why were they not?
Because it was closed overnight.
Theirjobs were just taken away
from them overnight.
Well, their employers could have put
them on to furlough.
That’s exactly what that
scheme is there for.
It is there...
You know, everything was closed
overnight on the 23rd of March.
Everything was closed overnight.
You know, look at the skies,
you won’t see hardly
any planes flying.
Go on a train, there
will be hardly...
Well, Michael could tell us,
but there will hardly be
anyone on the train.
Honestly, Gillian, people working
behind bars cannot be put easily
into a furlough scheme.
Well, they were put
into furlough schemes.
The point that you’re missing...
All across the country,
for that six months, they were.
We have been under restrictions,
local restrictions, without support.
And that’s happened all summer.
If you’re going to introduce
a traffic light scheme,
that will trap large parts
of the north of England under severe
restrictions this winter,
can I ask you, do you think we need
a proper support scheme
so that we don’t see major loss
ofjobs, major business failure?
Would you commit to that tonight?
Because if you will,
I will work with your government
to then put that in place.
What we were presented
with was restrictions
without support, and that is not
acceptable to us.
For some reason, Andy,
you seem to not have realised
that the furlough scheme that we put
in place in March, which is still
in place today, which we have
spent £40 billion on...
But Gillian, as I am sure you know,
it is closed to new entrants.
Yes, but it’s closed off
at the end of this month.
But it’s been there...
It’s closed to new entrants.
The Bolton staff could not
access that scheme.
It closed on the 30th ofJune.
And the point is, furlough ends
on the end of this month.
Yes, and we have...
In industries like aviation,
for instance, can’t come back.
So the damage you’re going to do
to those people who work
in regional airports,
combined with the local
restrictions, means that fragile
economies in the North
are going to be...
Can I just correct you?
It’s the damage that
the coronavirus, the global
pandemic is doing.
The Government has been
there to help as many people
as we can every step of the way.
It is not the Government
that are doing this,
it is the coronavirus,
it’s the public health epidemic
we are dealing with.
The Government are choosing to close
bars and restaurants,
that’s your choice.
Jak, you asked the question,
you had your hand up again?
Public health is an issue.
Yeah, in terms of a national
lockdown, if it is necessary,
then it is necessary.
But I think the thing
I fear about it, I work
in the hospitality industry,
is, with the furlough,
that does come to an end
at the end of the month.
And come the 1st of November,
the scheme that’s in place isn’t
going to be able to pay my bills
for me to be able to live, coming
into winter, when it’s colder,
you need to use heating more,
and nobody blames the Government
for coronavirus, obviously.
It’s completely out of your hands.
But when it comes to people living,
I fear that we are going to lose
a lot of team, from where I work.
We are not going to be
able to afford to live.
And it’s such last minute.
As you said, with the north,
it was overnight.
Being able to close a business
and tell your team they cannot work,
and you don’t know what’s
going to happen with their pay,
overnight, it’s worrying.
It’s really worrying.
Jasper?
Yeah, I’d just like to say that
we’ve got to remember,
behind all the big numbers
of people, those injobs,
that will suffer from mental health,
financial burdens, pressures
on families, it’s huge.
And because it’s unprecedented, why
can’t we take unprecedented action?
Why can’t we just say take
all the politics out of this,
because it always feels like a bit
of a slanging match,
why can’t you just sort of say,
you know what, have a uniform
government and take
massive, big actions.
Because, really, it needs to have
more of a humanitarian
approach to this, rather
than a political approach.
Take the politics out,
put the people first.
You know, if someone said to me,
yourjob’s gone the next day,
I wouldn’t know what to do.
Paul, I’m going to use your surname,
because we’ve got three Pauls
in our virtual audience.
Paul Somerfield?
Yeah, good evening.
There is no doubt about it, Andy,
I certainly appreciate
and understand where
you’re coming from.
But I certainly agree
with what Jasper said.
We really must unite
and stop Boris bashing,
there’s been no other Prime Minister
who has governed during such
horrendous times in our peacetime.
Now is the time of the
United Kingdom to all unite,
get behind him and stick
to the rules and the regulations.
Because there is no quick fix.
It’s not going to be easy.
There are going to be hardships.
I stress, we must all unite.
Can Ijust reassure you,
I said to the Government this week,
let’s reset things, bring national
and local government back together,
let’s agree these traffic lights,
get the support right as well,
and just two days later,
the front page of the times,
bars to shut across northern
England.
That explains my mood this evening.
Nobody has taken any
decision lightly, Andy.
Nobody.
And obviously the scientific
advisers are there,
reading data every day.
This is a serious situation.
It’s very serious and to having
an impact on peoples health,
and is very worrying.
I must come to the rest
of the panel as well.
Yanis, you are coming to us
from Athens tonight.
Jak’s question is, is a second
national lockdown not
a case of "if" any more,
but "when", and what about
businesses struggling to survive.
Greece has had a pretty good
coronavirus experience, relatively.
Yes, in a sense we have been
watching with a look of glee
on our collective face,
as the result of the fact that,
for the first time in many years,
we are not the butt
of the European joke.
You know, there is the
United Kingdom doing worse than us.
But, besidesjoking,
Greece has done much better
than the United Kingdom
for three reasons.
First, because the Balkan Peninsula
has, happily for us,
being outside the thoroughfare
of trajectory of Covid—19.
We are not as promiscuous in terms
of being a hub of finance,
of tourism, like Britain is.
So, that has sheltered us.
Also, the government, remember,
I was saying this as a leader
of an opposition party,
government, nevertheless,
was quick to respond,
unlike Borisjohnson.
They wasted a fantastic opportunity,
however, to plan for phase two.
So, now, they’ve lost
control of phase two.
What’s striking about this
conversation is that it’s very
similar to the one we are having
in this neck of the woods.
Michael Portillo.
Jak’s first question was is there
going to be another lockdown.
I think the answer to that is no,
it’s not going to be
the same as before.
For example, I think the government
is absolutely determined
not to close schools,
and I think it’ll want to keep
a lot of businesses open.
I think this time it’ll
look much more carefully
what is the relationship
between new cases
and hospitalisations,
people on ventilators,
the number of deaths,
and I think there will be
a different approach to risk.
The other thing, though,
that I think has to change,
and I very much sympathised
with Andy on this,
is that the government has to take
more voices into consideration
before it makes decisions.
On the one hand, that means
Parliament, so it isn’t good enough
to make decisions and then
retrospectively to ask
Parliament’s opinion.
And I think the government would be
very well advised to consult more
with local authorities.
Indeed, I’d go much further,
I think the government should give
many of the responsibilities
to the local authorities
and for local authorities to take
the actions which they deem
to be appropriate.
And what difference do
you think that’ll make?
I think it would make
a difference certainly
to the political conversation.
I mean people like Andy would be
singing a different tune
if that were the case.
I personally think it is more likely
that public health officials
at the regional, city
and local level understand
the situation better
than officials who are central
but there is also a political point,
which is that the questions
about this disease are very
difficult to answer.
You know, what is the objective now?
Is the objective to reduce
the number of deaths?
To reduce the number
of deaths to zero?
Is it to stop the NHS
being overwhelmed?
Is it to strike a balance?
Are we now interested
in group immunity?
These questions are terribly
difficult to answer and I think
instead of the government having
to answer all of these questions,
mayors should have to answer
these questions as well.
So, by all means, let Andy do
something different in Manchester
from what is equivalent its doing
in Liverpool and somebody else
is doing in Edinburgh and Glasgow.
Let others have regional diversity.
There is also, by the way,
another reason why I think
this might be of benefit
to the government, which is it
would reduce its Scottish political
problem because at the moment
you have BorisJohnson on the one
hand, Nicola Sturgeon,
who is perceived as doing
very much better.
If you had a variety
of regional voices, so,
Andy doing his policies,
the Mayor of Liverpool
doing his policies, you’d reduce...
So, it’s spreading the blame,
that’s what you’re talking about.
Well, spreading the blame?
Spreading the responsibility.
Let me go back to my previous point.
If you have a debate in Parliament,
the funny thing that happens is that
people pop up with all sorts
of common—sense questions.
You know, how does this work?
Will it apply to this person,
will it apply to that person?
Funnily enough, through
Parliamentary debates,
because members of Parliament talk
to their constituents,
who are members of the public,
you get common—sense points of view
which are brought forward before
legislation is drafted
rather than afterwards.
And if they come up afterwards,
then the government has
to explain them away rather
than improve the legislation.
50, Donna, Jak’s question
is a second national lockdown not
a case of if any more but when.
You are at the front
line of all this.
What’s your view and is it
something you’d welcome?
It is a worry because we
are seeing cases rise.
But, actually, the answer to that,
Jak, depends on how we behave.
We’ve already been
through coronavirus,
we’ve been at the height
of the pandemic.
We know what to do if we want
to suppress this virus,
we know what actions
we need to take.
And, yes, of course, we are talking
about to different things,
they are irreconcilable.
One is how are we going to maintain
the economy, keep ourjobs,
the other one is about how
are we going to keep ourselves well,
healthy and save lives.
And we have to remember that this
virus causes untold problems
for some of our population.
It is not for all of our population
but for some of our population.
And, you know, I take the panel back
to unless you’ve got health,
you’ve got no economy.
The dead don’t pay taxes.
50, actually, there is something
that is a first—order and something
that mayjust be second—order.
So Ijust like...
Having been a nurse that’s
fought through this,
I think it’s important to recognise
that, yes, there are other
things, like the economy,
keeping thejobs going,
but dead people can’t work.
So, for me, it’s hugely important
that we actually protect
the populations that are vulnerable.
And the other thing...
Does that mean you want
tighter restrictions?
I want people to practise
the restrictions that are out there.
So, you think people are not
obeying them at the moment,
in sufficient numbers?
I spoke to about 100
nurses today and I spoke
to others in West Yorkshire,
and, you know, example after example
of people that were not
following the restrictions,
actually, and for those nurses,
it was quite heartfelt
because they’d been on the front
line, they’d done their bit,
they’d stepped up, they’d worked
more hours, they left their children
and moved out of their homes.
And, so, it’s quite important,
actually, that we don’t lose sight
of the fact that the behaviours
we adopt can help save lives and may
be if it’s not my life
or somebody else’s life,
it could be their own lives.
So let’s not lose sight of the fact
we are in a pandemic,
and we do have to protect lives,
and, yes, of course we need
to protect the economy but,
actually, if you haven’t got life,
you can’t protect the economy.
I’m going to take another question,
but, before I do, wejust wanted
to mention where we will be
in the coming weeks.
We are looking for people
to join our virtual audience
as we have here tonight.
Next week we are in Edinburgh.
The week after that,
we are in Sedgefield,
Tony Blair’s old constituency.
One of the red wall seats that
turned blue at the last election.
So, if you live in either of those
two areas or thereabouts,
around there, get in touch
by going to the Question Time
website, you can follow
the instructions there,
and come and be part
of our virtual audience,
we’d love to hear from you.
Let’s hear from one of our virtual
audience now, who is here with us.
Karl Timson.
Hi, Fiona.
I’d like to say given the disruption
Covid—19 has had on the public,
and the mixed messages and confusion
between parties, what measures
are the government taking
in planning ahead for the future?
And thinking if we have a vaccine
or if we don’t have a vaccine, Karl?
Yes, yes, planning ahead
if we don’t have a vaccine,
what if we don’t find the vaccine
in time before the end of the year,
what is the government’s plan?
So, what is the strategy?
We all know a lot of work’s
being done on the vaccine,
the government supporting it,
you don’t need to tell us that,
but what is the strategy?
Well, we have...
The overall strategy,
and Michael mentioned this,
is to try and get the R rate below
one, so that’s what were trying
to do, that’s what were trying to do
in suppressing the cases.
So, Donna’s point is absolutely
very warmly welcome,
and actually from the front line,
from the nurses saying, please,
please follow the rules because,
actually, the best things we can do,
we know a bit more about this
disease now but transmission,
it is very easily transmitted
but we can do an awful
lot to stop that.
Really, this hands, face,
space, it isn’t a rhyme,
it’s really serious.
In terms of what we’re
doing to prepare...
To better prepare, the thing
we’re trying to work
on is obviously the vaccine,
and we have the two groups
here that seem to be
leading the way, but,
as you say, that’ll be binary,
it will or won’t work at some point.
In terms of testing,
we’ve got another two streams.
The first is to have a lot more
testing, so, 500,000 tests per day
by the end of this month,
and the moonshot, which is millions
a day in the early next year.
And that really reliess
on the pilots we are doing now
with the rapid testing,
the saliva testing.
There is a number of
different pilots going on.
That, if you can get
to those kinds of tests,
it does give you some options...
So, the strategy, then,
is either for a vaccine to come
to the rescue or to have so much
testing in fact that we don’t have
to go into restrictions
one after another?
To live with it in a way you can use
testing effectively so, for example,
for venues you could use a test,
you could have a rapid turnaround,
you could tell if somebody
was negative, they could go
into the venue.
Can I just ask you about...
We are working on those
in parallel...
Let me just ask you about
the vaccine because there
were reports this week that
on a vaccine does come along,
if and when it comes along,
it’ll only be offered to 15%
of the population.
Is that right?
I don’t know where those
reports came from.
Obviously, we will get as much
of the vaccine as we can,
and we’ve secured already...
So, is that right or not right?
I don’t know if that is right or not
right but we will go until we get
the whole population...
This was the head of the vaccine
programme saying that
which is why I am asking.
I guess they’d know.
I suppose they would know, I suppose
that’s where they will start.
If you start with a vaccine,
I imagine you’ll go to as many
people who want a vaccine.
It’s not like the vaccine
is going to be sort of depleted
and then there is no
longer any vaccine.
It can be made again.
So, you know, Ithink
the question, actually,
is not about the percentage,
it’s about how long it takes to get
enough of the population vaccinated
and also the prioritisation
of the vaccination, which I’m sure
will include some of the more
vulnerable groups that don
are referred to would
be top of the list.
Donna, where do you think
the government should be going?
BorisJohnson has talked
about having a bumper six months
ahead, none of us really know what’s
going to happen around
Christmas and beyond.
I think if a vaccine comes
along, all well and good.
But, actually, there
is something about us living
with the new normal because,
actually, whatever happens now,
we can see that we will suppress
and then we will spike.
If you look at the trajectory today,
we’ve seen is that we all took
really restrictive action,
and the minute we started loosening,
we started to get some spikes.
So, I think we are going to have
to get used to a new norm.
We are going to have to do
the things that we are doing,
like the face, the masks,
the hand washing,
the social distancing.
I think, for us as a people,
it is a new thing we
have to get used to.
Clearly, at some point,
we are going to have to go
back to work and earn,
and have pubs, but, actually,
as we learn more and more
about the virus, it’s been around...
It is relatively young,
really, so I think time
will teach us a bit more.
Michael, I mean, as Donna says,
people will have to go back to work,
lots of people are not going to be
able to go back to
work at the moment.
Part of the government’s strategies
clearly economy and. ..
Government debt has
passed £2 trillion for
the first time in history.
That’s going to surely
going to be a large part
of the strategy, going forward.
Well, as I said, Ifeel sure
we’re not going back
to total lockdown.
What was quite effective
in controlling the virus was total
lockdown but if I’m right and we’re
not going back to that,
and partial lockdown seems to be
relatively ineffective,
what that implies is we’re going
to live with levels of the virus.
What we know is the viruses much
more lethal for certain age groups
and certain sorts of people,
and much less lethal for others.
So, I think there will eventually
emerge a difference of policy
towards people of different age
groups and different vulnerabilities
which will mean that younger people
will be encouraged to go back
to work, and older people
will be protected.
And the protection of the older
people will be partly, I think,
in the hands of individuals,
so if you’re going to visit
your elderly parents,
you want to make sure you’ve been
tested, maybe you’ve been
quarantined for some days before
you go to see your parents,
and, at some levels,
it’ll be institutional.
So, where, for example,
young and old meet is in care homes,
well, young people who go into work
in care homes you have a social
life outside they’re
going to have to be tested,
I’d say, on a daily basis.
We’ve absolutely got to make sure
we maintain that frontier.
So I think, although I don’t
believe this has been
talked about very much,
we will see the emergence
of a strategy which looks very
different from the strategy
we come from.
On your point about the 2 trillion,
at no point as the government or,
dare I say, any government anywhere
in the world tried to calculate
what it is worth spending.
We shied away from the question
of what human life is worth.
It’s too dangerous a subject.
Of course, we do do
this in other contexts.
If you’re going to build a bypass,
we say how many lives is going
to save and is it worth doing.
But, in this context, we haven’t.
I’m pretty sure that the money we’ve
spent, the ruin that’s been brought,
the mental health issues that have
arisen, the cancellation
of the cancer operations,
the number of people who have
developed other diseases,
the mortality of those people
who haven’t been treated,
I’m pretty sure that
all of that is not worth the lives
we may have saved but no one
is willing to calculate that
but I think at some point,
unless the vaccine comes along,
we will have to have a different
approach in which we say this thing
is going to be around,
and we will therefore have to think
about who is able to live with it
and who must be excluded from it,
and how do we protect the barriers
between these two populations.
And, Yanis, sitting where
you are in Athens, what’s your take?
Well, let me first answer
Karl’s question about
what governments can actually do.
The main task is a proper test
and trace regime system.
Unfortunately, BorisJohnson
and our Prime Minister
here during the lockdown made
the far—fetched promises
about world beating superlative
testing and tracing systems
and they didn’t deliver.
And that eroded trust
in our governance.
At a time when lives depend
on the maintenance of that trust.
It’s notjust a question of money.
Greece is broke.
Our government...
As you know are hugely indebted,
and they couldn’t put an amount
of money into the testing regime
the United Kingdom did.
But the shambles in
the United Kingdom with the testing
regime proves that it’s notjust
a question of penny pinching.
It’s a question of where
you spend the money.
And this obsession
with subcontracting
to private medical megafirms,
the testing system, which...
Is called an "NHS" testing
and tracing system, but it’s not.
It does not involve the NHS.
All the expertise of the NHS is not
part and parcel of this system.
Therefore, you have complete
failure, as one company
subcontracts to another.
That’s the answer to Karl.
On the question of the economy,
allow me to say that
I was watching your Chancellor over
the last months, and I thought
he had a pretty good
pandemic until recently.
Then he made this derisory speech
in which, to please a crowd
of Tories, he talked about how
you need to balance the books,
and to end furlough at the end
of October, as you all know better
than me, to replace it
with a feeble job support scheme.
Now, this is not simply
going to create huge uncertainty
in the mind of the most precarious,
the young, the indebted,
those people who are using credit
cards to put food on the table
before the pandemic.
But it is also an act
of vandalism on the United
Kingdom’s public finances.
Because, Fiona, and this
is how I end, however hard
he shrinks public expenditure,
during a period of serious
depression, the tax take
of the Government is going
to be collapsing faster.
And he will not be able
to decrease his spending at a rate
that will catch up with the decrease
in his revenues, without destroying
the Boris Johnson government.
David, you’ve got your hand up?
I think the future strategy
for the Government should not
look at the symptoms,
which is what they are looking
at at the moment, but the actual
diagnosis of the problem.
And I was pleased to see
that there was an announcement,
I think, by the Government
that they are going to spend several
thousand pounds which the local
councils are going to have to employ
marshals and police to really focus
on the true diagnosis,
which is what is the cause
of this problem?
The cause of this problem is that
people are just not...
Some people are just not adhering
to the government guidelines.
The only way this virus goes
from one person to another
is by somebody being within two
metres of each other.
And I think that is what
the Government should
focus its efforts on, quite frankly.
And making people obey
the restrictions,
is what you’re saying?
Yes, you see these people
gallivanting around,
they might be in a minority,
but the only way the
numbers are increasing
is because they are just not
following what the
Government is dictating.
And that is use the mask,
keep two metres apart from each
other and wash your hands regularly.
And if people did that,
this virus just would not grow
and we would be out of the problem.
And if it continues to grow
like this, then the Government
has got to spend money,
as a future strategy,
to employ these people,
marshals or whatever they are,
to refocus on the areas where these
people are breaking the law.
Well, as you are talking, David,
lots of hands going up.
Ben?
I think it is easy to talk
about what the Government’s future
strategy is going to be.
What have they lost the trust
of the public too much?
I suppose that is not
just the Conservatives,
look across party over the last ten
days, Jeremy Corbyn has hosted
a party at his house with ten
people, the SNP MP who got
the train, infected,
all the way back to Scotland.
The SNP MP you are talking
about, Margaret Ferrier?
Yes, I just think that,
regardless of what the future
strategy is, is the trust gone?
I say SNP MP, she has lost the whip,
so she is not an SNP MP
technically speaking.
Laura?
Hi.
Yeah, just on that point before,
I think it’s very difficult,
obviously, for us to protect
what is going to happen.
But to blame the people
when the Government strategy
was obviously to open bars
and restaurants, and then
to automatically shut
them down so quickly,
when we know that, as Donna
mentioned, it’s going to spike
and then it’s going to reduce again.
I think it’s more about,
has the Government learned
about this latest wave,
or the beginning of this wave,
if we are, and what do the panel
think about how that has
immediately been handled 7
We are seeing a rise in spike
in cases, I suppose.
Just listening in to
what everybody’s been saying,
I think one of the recurring themes
for me is around the communication
of whatever anybody is going to do.
The issue remains how
the information is communicated
to the public, and how people react.
And that’s where we are
seeing the problems.
Because information has been trickle
down to local authorities,
and two newspapers, and people
aren’t able to react effectively.
And that’s when we are getting these
mixed messages and people
behaving differently.
Because people are hearing
at absorbing information
for what it means to them.
And I just think that is something
we all need to work together on.
I should clarify, Jeremy Corbyn
was attending a wake, incidentally,
not hosting a party.
There were more than six people
there, but it wasn’t actually
a party at his home.
Andy, you were Health
Secretary once.
Karl’s question is about
what measures can the public
expect Government to take,
in particular if a
vaccine is not ready.
Would you do?
So, as Gillian said at the start,
it is a serious situation.
It is hard.
I was Health Secretary
when we had swine flu.
I didn’t get everything right.
So, I would acknowledge
all of those things.
Fariah made an excellent
point, that there are too
many mixed messages.
We’re under local restrictions
on the north—west, to stop
gatherings in the home.
I would say this 10pm curfew creates
gatherings in the home,
because it puts everybody out
of the pub at the same time coming
to the supermarket,
and then on to a gathering.
So, they’ve got to decide,
what are they trying to do?
At the evidence behind it,
I think as Fariah said,
and then more will maybe buy
in to what they are doing.
To answer the question
what would I do, I think Michael
and Yanis have got this right.
The Government strategy,
I’m afraid, has been
to centralise and to privatise,
when it should have
been to localise.
And if they’d done that
at the start, I think
they would have been able
to have a much better
sharing of responsibility.
There are public health teams
and local authorities that have been
bypassed when it comes to testing
and contact tracing.
And just to say, it’s not too late.
We could still change things.
The national Test and Trace system,
the NHS Test and Trace system,
which Yanis rightly said isn’t much
of an NHS system, currently it
reaches three quarters of people
who test positive in Greater
Manchester.
It doesn’t reach a quarter.
And it reaches half of their family
and friends, half of their contacts.
Now, that is not good enough,
going into winter, for us.
And why is it not performing better?
It’s the difference
between a call centre,
disconnected from communities,
or people on the ground
going doorstep to doorstep.
When local teams do it
in Greater Manchester,
there is a much, much
higher success rate.
And that is what I would do
to answer the question.
I would switch resources
from these national contracts,
I would put it, as Michael said,
into local authorities.
I’ve asked Greater Manchester
Police, Greater Manchester Fire,
to help with contact tracing.
To show that we are putting
forward solutions,
we are notjust criticising.
That is what the
government should do.
I am happy to take responsibility
and be held accountable
for improving those contact rates
that we have currently got.
So, we need to fix Test and Trace
before we go into the winter.
But Yanis is right, too.
We need to extend furlough for those
sectors that will be able
to come back anytime soon,
like aviation, like hospitality,
like live events.
That is what we should do.
Because then we will get more buy
in to the Government strategy,
people would feel supported
and we could get through
a difficult winter.
If they don’t do those things,
I think we are looking
at a winter of deep discontent
in the North of England.
Let’s hearfrom Paul O’Donnell.
Yeah, just sort of going off that,
I think it sort of is about that
two—way conversation,
and the conversation is not
just government outwards
to those localised centres,
it is also to ensure that
people like you, Andy,
can have conversations back
and conform their decisions
and make those decisions.
And you have a specific
question, Paul?
Yes, I have.
A lot of musicians and artists took
offence at Rishi Sunak’s
comments this week.
As Coventry prepares for being UK
City of Culture in 2021,
what are the Government going to do
to ensure that independent
artists survive that long?
So, for those of you who are not
aware about the comments
you are referring to,
Paul, Rishi Sunak was on another
channel, he was asked
what the Government would do
for people in the arts,
specifically, who can’t work.
He talked generally about newjob
schemes and said they are a fresh
and new opportunity for people.
Today, the Chancellor denied
he meant that people
in the arts should retrain.
In fact, he said, they
don’t need to retrain.
I mean, Yanis, does it
come back to providing
greater furlough schemes,
greater opportunities for people?
Particularly in the arts,
music and theatre sector?
It’s funny you should ask that,
because we had recently
a debate in Parliament,
in Greece, about
precisely this issue.
And it was our party’s
position that we have
to have a special furlough
for people who are in the arts,
and have been hit twice by the fact
that the theatres,
pubs and music venues have closed
down, while their second job,
or main job, in the service sector
has already been hit.
I think Michael Portillo
might appreciate that
in Parliament I paraphrase slightly
Winston Churchill, saying,
ill fares the people
who fail to salute the arts
with the reverence and delight
which are their due.
Allow me just to make a point
regarding generally supporting those
that deserve support at the moment.
You know, the Bank of England is
printing mountain ranges of money.
Which it hopes to lend
to the City of London banks,
hopefully so that they pass it
onto business, hoping
that the business will not buy
back their own shares,
but they will, you know,
invest in good qualityjobs.
This chain is not working.
Imagine if the Bank of England did
that which the monetary authorities
of Hong Kong did at the beginning
of lockdown, or what
Australia did in 2009.
This is something where I believe
a lefty like myself
and a Thatcherite can agree.
Because it is an original idea
by Thomas Paine on one hand,
and Milton Friedman on the other.
Imagine if the Bank of England,
instead of passing the money
onto the commercial banks,
were to put it in the bank
account of every citizen
of the United Kingdom.
A certain amount of money,
until all boats are lifted up,
including the artists.
Michael Portillo, could
you agree with that?
Well...
Yanis is saying you are both
in agreement on that?
No, I don’t dismiss it out of hand.
I mean, we’re all talking about how
we are going to support people,
and we want to support people,
partly so that they can feed
themselves, but partly so they can
spend money on the economy,
which providesjobs for the people.
So I don’t dismiss
it entirely of hand.
I think the other approach
I would have to the arts,
the Government very often asks
the question what can we do,
the answer comes back,
we’ve got to close the theatres.
See, if I was a minister,
I think I would say no,
I want to know how I would keep
the theatres open.
What would we have to do
for the theatres to be open.
Actually, having the theatres open,
it seems to be an easier question,
actually, than opening restaurants,
in the sense that you can sit
in a theatre, covered up.
So, whatever the
appropriate covering is.
When you go into a restaurant,
you have to have the covering off,
because you’ve got to eat.
When you go into a theatre,
you don’t have to.
But at the moment, you have to have
fewer people in the theatre,
which makes it a very expensive
production, relative to when you get
relative to when you get money
from people buy tickets.
First of all, I don’t know
whether that’s true.
I don’t know whether if people
were appropriately clothed,
whether they could go to the theatre
and not maintain social distancing.
In any case, I would
want the theatres...
I wouldn’t say the theatres
had to be closed.
I would say the theatres
should be open.
The maximum number of people,
and if it has to be relayed
to another theatre,
where there is another
group of people.
In other words, what we need
to do is to find ways
of making things happen,
not just accept that everything
has to be closed down.
We had the same in
transport, you know?
We were told that only 10% of people
travel, by comparison
with earlier, on transport.
That’s not a good enough answer.
The question is, how do you get 100%
of people back on transport?
What is it that we need to do,
scientifically, with people
in power or whatever,
to get back to where we were?
Laura, you had your hand up?
Hi, yeah, just on this point
as well, I happen to live
in Stratford—upon—Avon.
Obviously the announcement
of the RSC closing two
of its theatres until 2022,
thatjust has a massive knock—on
on the local economy as well.
So, we need to find a way to support
the arts in order for these
businesses to continue to thrive.
So, it was just really around that,
a comment around that, really.
Amy?
Hello.
A lot of people turn to the arts
when lockdown happened.
And Ifeel like they’ve kind
of been forgotten about.
White background you think
they should get more support?
Yeah, definitely.
Steve 7
50, further to Donna’s comments
about it being a new norm,
why don’t we consider a new economic
policy, and universal income?
That would benefit all,
notjust those in the arts,
but raising everybody up,
and perhaps kick—starting
the economy that way?
And, Paul O’Donnell,
you asked this question.
Forgive me, I should know this
but do you work in the arts?
Yes, so I am a theatre maker.
I tour up and down the country,
and internationally
when I get a chance.
So how has all this affected you,
have you had any work,
are you benefiting
from any of the money
the government has had to offer?
I was lucky enough to get
the self—employed income support
but I understand that the theatre
industry, the sector,
hasn’t been so fortunate in that.
70% of the industry are freelancers
and I think only about 30% of them
in theatre were eligible for that
support so there is a lot of people
in the industry who haven’t had any
income for seven months.
And now we’ve got to this
point in the crossroads,
when the self employed income
support is ending and it feels
to the industry very much
like government is sort
of approaching it with the deal
with that approach, and telling us
there isn’t going to be any further
support the industry.
And, importantly, for the artists
that are working with it,
and I mean artists as in designers,
technicians...
..anybody that works around
the theatre, they’ve
all been affected by this.
So, Gillian, Rishi Sunak was very
keen to make it clear today
that he explicitly was not
suggesting that people who work
in the arts should retrain.
But if they can’t work,
what are they supposed to do?
It is important to say what Rishi
was saying because, actually...
Well, I’m just quoting
what he said today.
He said specifically he was very
clear, these are his words,
that he doesn’t, he’s not saying
these people should retrain.
So, given that, how does
he expect to get by?
We had Nicola Benedetti yesterday,
the violinist, she had
people out in Parliament.
Of course, the arts are important,
everybody loves the arts,
they are a massive export,
they are a massive
differentiator for our country.
And they are hugely important.
That’s why there has been a package
of £1.57 billion on top
of the furlough self
employment schemes, etc.
Nobody is saying at all,
and the Chancellor hasn’t said
that there is no support
for anything forever.
He’s basically said
he keeps everything under
review, we know that.
But I want to say something that
I think we’ve lost the focus on.
This has not been an even economic
disruption with the coronavirus.
More than half of our economy
is actually growing massively.
So, if you’re in health, if you’re
in food, if you’re in IT...
Hang on, you are way
off the question!
Hang on a minute, Paul’s question
is what are the government...
It is important to
answer the question.
What are the government going to do
to ensure that independent
artists survive that long,
as Coventry, because we’ve
got our audience from Coventry,
prepare for UK city
of culture in 2021?
So, what is the government
going to do to ensure that people
like Paul and others do survive that
long if they are not...
Clearly, the Chancellor doesn’t
want them to retrain,
what do you think they should do?
£1.57 billion has gone
into rescuing the arts...
That’s to organisations,
not to individual artists.
They haven’t worked out yet how it’s
all going to go through,
so it is going through a number
of different routes.
I don’t know, they are organising
themselves how that happens,
I don’t know any more
detail on that.
There is many sectors
who haven’t had that support.
The arts has had that support
plus the other schemes are there.
Of course, we are not going to sit
here and let all of our arts
or all of our culture,
everything, disappear
so we’ve got nothing left.
We are there to support which is why
that has been put in place.
And I know the Culture Secretary
is talking about sports...
There is many, many sectors,
you could apply this
question to many sectors.
What I was wanting to say,
and I think is important,
is the first six weeks
of apprenticeships and skills
minister, every meeting I had
was about massive skill shortages
in this economy.
Hundreds of thousands of skill
shortages in nursing, mental health,
social care, engineering...
So, do you think they
should retrain, then?
There is many opportunities
for people to retrain.
I’m not saying, because this
is where people say
I don’t want to retrain.
It isn’t forcing people to retrain.
It’s just saying if you are a young
person or if you are looking
for your second career,
this is my second career
because I’ve been in business for 30
years, if you’re looking
for something different to do,
there are many opportunities.
We’ve got many skill shortages.
And that’s why we’ve
put a big announcement
togetherfor adult skills,
to help people to retrain,
to make it much more easy.
Some people want a second career.
They’ve been working for a long time
now and it can be right.
I’ve met many people who have been
made redundant in the past
to use this to retrain,
to go into nursing, for example,
that they wanted to do from school
but never got the opportunity.
So, it is an important message.
Donna, you’re not looking
too chuffed with that.
The government is saying it’s
going to get 50,000 more
nurses, maybe this is how?
I’d be delighted!
I’m not looking unhappy,
I’d be delighted.
As I said, first of all, nursing,
you have to want to be a nurse.
And it is a lot of hard
work to be a nurse.
We are 50...
We started this pandemic
50,000 nurses short,
and we are 50,000 nurses short
because nurses is treated
as a vocation, it’s not been paid
properly, we’ve stepped
up, we’ve served.
So there’s going to have
to be much more thanjust
saying retrain because,
actually, people want
a good quality of life.
And that includes paying people
properly and recognising
their skills and value.
What do you think of government
suggestions that we’ve heard
about people who work in cinemas,
for example, or cabin crew,
could retrain and work in the care
sector, is it a goer?
It might be, if you can acquire
the skills and education,
and you’ve got the ability to be
a nurse or a carer, I think...
I’m not going to say it isn’t
a goer, because there
is a shortage of nurses,
we know that.
However, it is still
a complex skill.
You’ve seen how we’ve battled
on the front line, and we are about.
We did a survey recently,
37% said they wanted
to leave the profession.
50, actually, isn’t as easy
as retraining to be a nurse.
It is actually quite a hardcore
career with 37% said we’ve been
through the pandemic,
we’ve seen enough death,
thanks, we want to be off.
Gillian is right.
The government have put a lot
of support in different ways.
Of course they have.
But to answer Paul’s question why
are people in the arts
still kind of speaking out,
I think there’s two reasons why.
The first is many people who work
in the arts are self—employed
or freelancers and the truth
is the Chancellor never gave those
people enough support.
They were missed out back in April.
There was a support scheme
for the self employed.
There was but it
didn’t reach anybody.
People who were newly
self—employed didn’t get support,
they missed out low—paid company
directors was another group.
So it never was the case that
everybody got support.
Some people were missed
many of them work in the arts.
The second reason I think people
like Paul are feeling
frustrated this week is it’s
as if the government are making
a judgment about somejobs
are viable and some jobs
are not viable.
And they are always putting
the arts into the not viable
category and encouraging
people to retrain.
There is no doubt at all in my mind
that if the support is put in now
to keep people going,
the arts will come roaring
back at the end of this,
as will other sectors as well,
who simply cannot function properly
at this moment in time.
And I think that’s what people
are getting frustrated about,
as though the arts ran just be sort
of left to go.
Because, for us, the arts
are the lifeblood of Manchester.
The city thrives on the
institutions we’ve got.
And I put this to people —
if we come through this,
and to come through this crisis
and we look up and the theatres have
closed, and our music venues have
closed, and everything else we love
has gone, then Covid
will have won, basically.
Let me take a very quick question
in the time we have left from Jenny.
Hi.
My question is will Donald Trump
get the sympathy vote?
After of course he has
contracted coronavirus,
is what you’re referring to,
jenny.
It’s been interesting
to watch from over here,
from over this side of the Atlantic.
Michael?
The immediate reaction in the poll
seems to have been adverse
for Donald Trump which I must say
is slightly surprising.
I have a feeling, reading
the American public as best I can,
that there will be a bit
of a resurgence in Trump support
and that there will be a little bit
of a closing of the gap with Biden.
I think a big mistake has been made
today allowing Trump effectively
to pull out of the next debate
because they changed the rules.
They were going to make it virtual.
However, at this stage,
it looks as though the gap
between Trump and Biden is too great
to cover in the remaining days
before the election.
So I’d expect a closer result
than the polls are suggesting
at the moment but probably none
the less 3 Biden victory.
Gillian, Donald Trump
described his contracting
coronavirus as a blessing,
as a gift from God.
Was it a gift from God
for BorisJohnson?
I certainly don’t think he’d
describe it like that.
In fact, I don’t think he has
described it like that!
You know, there is a serious point,
actually, that there is a lot
of people living with long Covid
which can affect anyone at any
age, and we don’t talk
about that nearly enough.
So anybody who thinks that,
you know, letting the cases rip
and carrying on is a good idea...
So do you think Donald Trump
was wrong to say that, then?
Do you think he has
behaved irresponsibly?
Imean...
Come on, Gillian,
say what you think!
Donald Trump, I mean...
As for the election,
I think most people have decided.
It’s so polarised, it’s
an unbelievably polarised society
and I think will he get
the sympathy vote?
I very much doubt it but,
do I think he’s been blessed and God
has given him the answer?
Not necessarily, no.
He is lucky to have
survived it without...
It seems to be very low symptom, so,
for that, he will be thankful but it
doesn’t mean his case is going to be
the same for everybody else’s case,
which is kind of what he might be
saying, if you take this drug,
everybody, it’s nothing
to worry about.
That is completely wrong.
You think is wrong to say that?
I think it is wrong because Donna
will tell you, she knows much more
than I do but Long Cove it does
exist, it affects people
in different ways, different
age groups as well,
and it is very debilitating.
How do you think he’s handled it?
My advice to Donald Trump would be
to isolate and follow the rules...
For a long time!
Isolate, follow the rules,
and I’m not sure Donald Trump
would be anybody I’d be listening
to pronouncing on Covid.
Well, right, you heard it here!
Andy?
I think that is brilliant advice!
If he could isolate beyond November,
whatever the election date is,
that would be even better
but to answerJenny’s question, how
can you have sympathy for somebody
who is still infectious,
but drags security staff on a drive
around for his own purposes?
How could you have sympathy
for someone who does that?
for somebody who’s made a virtue
of not wearing a mask all year,
holding rallies without
social distancing?
Somebody said rightly before that
politicians need to lead
by example through this
and through their actions
do the right thing.
That’s what the job brings with it,
that’s what you should do.
And he’s done the complete opposite
and he put his own health at risk
but he actually has put the health
of millions of Americans
at risk through this.
So, I’ll make it plain,
I’ve no sympathy for him whatsoever.
Ijust hope and I think
the world would be a better
place if he is removed
with a landslide next month.
I think we will begin to get better
politics around the world.
We’ve had to pandemics, haven’t we?
This year, Covid
we have talked about.
But we’ve had a pandemic
growing over the last
decade of xenophobia,
nationalism, discrimination,
hate, and we’ve seen that
come to a head this year
on the streets of Minneapolis.
This world, in my view,
it needs a big correction.
We need to come out of this
with a very different mindset.
And Ijust think, you know,
it starts, I hope, with the removal
of Donald Trump next month.
Yanis, do you think he will
get the sympathy vote?
I agree with Andy that it is
impossible to sympathise
with somebody like Donald Trump
but where I disagree
is with the premise
of the question, if I may.
Donald Trump doesn’t do sympathy.
He doesn’t follow the
politics of sympathy.
He doesn’t trade on sympathy.
He doesn’t want sympathy.
He trades on envy, on discontent,
on anger, which he manipulates
magnificently, as we have seen.
You saw what he’s like.
He hasn’t asked for his supporters
sympathy, he asked for their envy!
Look at how great I am!
I even managed to defeat Covid
with the help of medicine!
And I will give you
the stuff for free.
This is where we are.
Where we have been since 2016,
perhaps a bit earlier than that.
We have created circumstances
of austerity for the many,
and socialism for the financiers.
That created discontent
at an industrial scale
and people like Trump,
Bolsanaro, Mohdi, Le Pen, Salvini,
Orban and so on trade on this.
They don’t want our sympathy.
What we need to do, we must change
the circumstances that beget
the energy that feeds them.
0K, we are I’m afraid out of time.
I can see a few of you
have your hands up.
A few are applauding as well.
If you were actually here,
we’d be able to hear but thank
you very much for that.
Tonight our questions came
from Coventry, as we saw.
Next week, as I said earlier,
we will be in Edinburgh
with the Scottish Government finance
secretary, Kate Frobes,
and the new leader of
the Scottish Conservatives,
Doug Ross.
The following week,
we are in Sedgefield,
where Nobel prize—winning economist
Joseph Stiglitz will be giving
us his take on what’s going on.
And you can apply to be
in our virtual audience,
go to the Question Time website
and follow the instructions there.
Adrian Chiles, as always, is coming
up on 5 Live with his guests
on Question Time Extra Time,
and you can see on screen how
to get in touch with that.
But, for now, just say thank
you very much to the panel
for coming here tonight.
Yanis, thank you very much
forjoining us from Athens.
And, of course, all our
audience in Coventry,
thank you for being part of this
programme, really appreciate
you being able to do that.
Of course, you at home for watching.
Thank you very much
from Question Time, bye—bye.
I don’t want to even want to speak.
This music’s way too smooth.
But how can sound waves physically
make you move?
And in return, you get experiences
you like. It lifts you high.
ASTRONAUT: "Should be coming into
view.
Earth’s starting to look
pretty small now.
I guess the world really does
turn...
MUSIC PLAYS
Be moved by...
I’ve always been fascinated
by family history because
we haven’t necessarily always had
the people you could ask.
Oh, my gosh, he was a gravedigger.
Brutal.
We lost the showman tradition
in ourfamily. Mmm. Mmm.
You’re back in it. Very kind of you
to call me a showman.
I’m quite rarely speechless,
but I’m almost speechless.
Also I think
he’s a very handsome chap
and obviously... Obviously.
..the genes run in the family.
BAFTA award—winning
Who Do You Think You Are...?
What didn’t she want me to see?
# I don’t want to lose... #
Ijust need some space, 0K? What?
Where’s Maya?
That’s what we signed up for,
sickness and health.
There’s a whole part of me
you’ve never seen.
..and all episodes
streaming now on iPlayer.
Newscast. Newscast, from the BBC.
Hello, it is Adam in the studio.
Hello, it is Adam in the studio. In
the same studio, two metres approach
to part. james
to part. James Gorman Broadcasting
to part. james Gorman Broadcasting
House, more
to part. James Gorman Broadcasting
House, more than two metres apart. I
don’t know how far, but I do walk
it. It is one of these moments where
it feels like there is a big thing
ﬂoating
floating around the Government,
ﬂoating around the Government,
around
floating around the Government,
around the Cabinet table, between
government departments. Versions of
it being leaked, consulting with
pub“:
public health experts, but not quite
there yet. It’s about a new system
for [oral
for local restrictions in England to
for [oral restrictions in England to
deal
for local restrictions in England to
deal with coronavirus. Absolutely
right. The reason for that is the
view in government is that we are at
a genuine cmnch
a genuine crunch point. Another big
rise in cases today. More than
17,000. The thing they are really
worried about is rising hospital
admissions. I am sure we will talk
about that later. Over the last 72
hours, there has been, shall we say,
plans that have been on again,
on-again,
on—again, off—again, on—again,
on-again, off-again, on-again,
off-again.
on—again, off—again, on—again,
off—again. Someone senior in
off-again. Someone senior in
government
off—again. Someone senior in
government said the polite way of
describing it is fluid. And there
describing it is ﬂuid. And there
is,
describing it is fluid. And there
is, however, beyond doubt, going to
be a big announcement from the
Government probably on Monday, that
could come in on Wednesday, of a
tiered system, where different parts